hi I'm Josh Olson and you're watching
trailers from hell it's been said that
the 70s where Hollywood's last great
golden era and that's a sentiment that I
completely agree with we're going to be
talking about a movie that absolutely
personifies that theory that proves it I
think beyond any shadow of a doubt when
they say they don't make them that way
anymore they can only be talking about
sergeant pepper's Lonely Hearts Club
Band Sergeant Pepper was directed by
Michael Schultz who had also done coolie
hi car wash grease lightning which way
is up which weirdly whose a remake of a
Lena white roller film producer Robert
Stigwood who had done Saturday Night
Fever and a couple other films came to
Shultz with the idea of turning Sergeant
Pepper into a movie the great Beatles
album sergeant pepper's Lonely Hearts
Club Band sure it's a terrible terrible
terrible idea but the last time Stigwood
had come to Shultz with an idea for a
movie it had been greased and Shultz
thought that was a terrible idea and it
turned it down so not trusting his
instincts he took the job I'm sure he
regrets it today anyway watching this
film again is like we're covering a
traumatic memory from youth you just try
to forget that it ever existed it's
inconceivable and indescribable in its
awfulness
you've got George Burns and Donald
Pleasance singing Beatles songs what
more do you need I will say that
Aerosmith is pretty good though and
frankly the Bee Gees are pretty great if
you went to see Beatle mania on Broadway
and the Bee Gees where the guys playing
The Beatles you'd be in for a pretty
good night they were great singers had
great harmonies you kind of wish though
that they'd screen-tested Peter Frampton
before they cast him in the lead the
poor guy cannot hold a close-up or
really frankly a tune here's a terrific
guitar player but the interesting thing
about Sergeant Pepper really is they
don't make them like this anymore the
madness the idiocy and the lunacy that
would allow someone to make this movie I
would argue is the same madness idiocy
and lunacy that lets Francis Ford
Coppola go off to the Philippines for
two years to make it
Vietnam movies based on heart of darkies
you don't get the good without the bad
in the 70s we are making some of the
best movies in the history of the medium
while at the same time making some of
the worst the difference between a
really good studio film in a really bad
studio film though today is so slim you
can't always tell the difference some
movies
get great reviews and other movies are
panned and you know they're just a few
studio notes away from each other I
would argue that the existence of
Sergeant Pepper was necessary for the
70s to be what they were but it is a
fascinating time capsule when you look
at it it's almost as if they knew they
were trying to take a picture of the 70s
that we would look back on now and
cringe so much of it is quintessential
70s Steve Martin who one of the great
comics giving probably the worst
performance in the film to Donald
Pleasence singing I want you and then
there's a strange thing at the end where
it seems like they just gathered up
anybody who is slightly famous who was
walking around the studio and threw them
into a big sing-along at the end I don't
know what seals and Crofts are doing in
this movie but I'm sort of weirdly glad
they're in it Carol Channing shows up
Keith Carradine based on the era and the
kind of film it is it's kind of shocking
that he's not in it marty Feldman is
conspicuous by his absence
apparently they approached him but marty
was one of the few people who had a good
enough sense to know this was the worst
idea in the history of film and said no
it's just an indescribably bizarre film
that could only have come out of
Hollywood in the 70s